CHAOS-5499 Linux JVM CPU stress (#6785)
harness/developer-hub: docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/linux/linux-jvm-cpu-stress.md

---
id: linux-jvm-cpu-stress
title: Linux JVM CPU stress
---

import Ossupport from './shared/note-supported-os.md'
import FaultPermissions from './shared/fault-permissions.md'

Linux JVM CPU stress consumes excessive CPU threads of the JVM.

:::tip
JVM chaos faults use the [Byteman utility](https://byteman.jboss.org/) to inject chaos faults into the JVM.
:::

![Linux JVM CPU stress](./static/images/linux-jvm-cpu-stress.png)

## Use cases
Linux JVM CPU stress:
- Tests the system's ability to handle high payloads.
- Evaluates the application's behavior in high-stress cases.

> - Induces CPU consumption and exhaustion on the target Linux machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Induces CPU consumption and exhaustion on the target Java process JVM.
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th> Port </th>
    <td> Port used to Byteman to start the Byteman agent. </td>
    <td> For example, <code>9091</code>. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th> Ramp time </th>
    <td> Period to wait before and after injecting chaos. Should be provided in <code>[numeric-hours]h[numeric-minutes]m[numeric-seconds]s</code> format. </td>
    <td> Default: <code>0s</code>. Examples: <code>1m25s</code>, <code>1h3m2s</code>, <code>1h3s</code>. For more information, go to <a href= "/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/common-tunables-for-all-faults#ramp-time">ramp time.</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Pid

The process Id used by Byteman to target the services of the JVM. This is mutually exclusive with the `Startup command` input variable.

The following YAML snippet illustrates the use of this input variable:

[embedmd]:# (./static/manifests/linux-jvm-cpu-stress/pid.yaml yaml)
```yaml
apiVersion: litmuchaos.io/v1alpha1
kind: LinuxFault
metadata:
  name: linux-jvm-cpu-stress
  labels:
    name: jvm-cpu-stress
spec:
  jvmChaos/inputs:
    duration: 30s
    port: 9091

>     pid: 0

Reviewer: We aren't using PID here, please check

Reviewer: Please check in other faults too.

Author: https://github.com/wings-software/enterprise-chaos-hub/blob/main/faults/linux/linux-jvm-cpu-stress/fault.yaml I referred this YAML. Please confirm if that is inconsistent.
